# Loops Folder 

For more information and examples, go to
<https://arcade.makecode.com/blocks/loops>

<img src="../images/media/image66.png"
style="width:2.76033in;height:5.90772in"
alt="A screenshot of a chat Description automatically generated" />

## Loop Forever block

Run a part of the program in the background and keep running it over
again.

<img src="./images/media/image67.png"
style="width:2.08333in;height:1.77778in"
alt="A green and yellow rectangles with white text Description automatically generated" />

The code you have in a forever loop will run and keep repeating itself
the whole time your program is active. Code in other parts of your
program won’t stop while your forever loop is running. This includes
other forever loops and the [run in
parallel](https://arcade.makecode.com/reference/control/run-in-parallel) block.

-   For more information and examples, go to
    <https://arcade.makecode.com/reference/loops/forever>

## Pause block

This block pauses a part of the program for the number of milliseconds
specified.

<img src="./images/media/image68.png"
style="width:2.09722in;height:0.70833in"
alt="A green and white rectangle with black numbers Description automatically generated" />

For more information and examples, go to
<https://arcade.makecode.com/reference/loops/pause>

## Loop Repeat times

This block runs part of the program the number of times you specify. In
the following example, the ***do*** code is run ***4*** times.

<img src="./images/media/image69.png"
style="width:2.27778in;height:1.5in"
alt="A green and white rectangular object with white text Description automatically generated" />

For more information and examples, go to
<https://arcade.makecode.com/blocks/loops/repeat>

## Loop While

This block repeats code while
a [<u>Boolean</u>](https://arcade.makecode.com/blocks/logic/boolean) condition is
true.

<img src="./images/media/image70.png"
style="width:2.23611in;height:1.41667in"
alt="A green and white text Description automatically generated" />

For more information and examples, go to
<https://arcade.makecode.com/blocks/loops/while>

## Loop For from to 

<img src="./images/media/image71.png"
style="width:3.26389in;height:1.84722in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated" />

For more information and examples, go to
<https://makecode.microbit.org/blocks/loops/for>

For element of  
  
This block runs Run part of the program for each element in an array
list.

<img src="./images/media/image72.png"
style="width:5.125in;height:1.31944in"
alt="A green and orange rectangular box with white text Description automatically generated" />

For more information and examples, go to
<https://arcade.makecode.com/blocks/loops/for-of>

## Break

Break out of the current loop and continue the program.

When a program encounters a break, the loop that contains it will stop
running at the place of the break. The program then continues by running
the code right after the end of the loop.

If a loop with a break is inside of another loop (nested loop), only the
loop with the break will end. The outer loop will continue to run the
code inside of it.

<img src="./images/media/image73.png"
style="width:6.5in;height:3.11389in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated" />

\- For more information and examples, go to
<https://makecode.microbit.org/blocks/loops/break>

## Continue 

This block skips the rest of the code in a loop and start the loop
again.

The following is an example using the ***Continue*** block.

<img src="./images/media/image74.png"
style="width:6.5in;height:2.94653in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated" />

-   For more information and examples, go to
    <https://makecode.microbit.org/blocks/loops/continue>

## On Start block

An event that runs when the program starts.

The on start is a special event that runs when the program starts,
before any other event. Use this event to initialize your program.

The on start block is in the Loops folder and looks like the following  
<img src="./images/media/image75.png"
style="width:2.59722in;height:1.61111in"
alt="A green file folder with white text Description automatically generated" />

-   For more information and examples, go to
    <https://arcade.makecode.com/blocks/on-start>